Slim down Quickstart by moving details to Writing Testbenches (#2377)
cocotb/cocotb: documentation/source/quickstart.rst

Using cocotb
============

A typical cocotb testbench requires no additional :term:`HDL` code
(though nothing prevents you from adding testbench helper code).
The *Design Under Test* (:term:`DUT`) is instantiated as the toplevel in the simulator
without any wrapper code.
Cocotb drives stimulus onto the inputs to the :term:`DUT` and monitors the outputs
directly from Python.

In the following sections we are showing you the code of a
small but complete cocotb testbench environment.

.. _quickstart_creating_a_makefile:

Creating a Makefile
-------------------

> To run a cocotb test we typically create a Makefile.

Author: We made a start on custom flows I'd say, but using make is the proven method and good for a quickstart section in this release IMO.

Cocotb provides ``make`` rules to handle the simulator setup.
We only need to inform cocotb of the source files we need compiling,

> the toplevel entity to instantiate and the Python test script to load.

Author: I agree with adding `SIM` and `TOPLEVEL_LANG`.

> the toplevel entity to instantiate and the Python test script to load.

Author: Added.

    async def my_first_test(dut):
        """Try accessing the design."""

        dut._log.info("Running test...")
        for cycle in range(10):
            dut.clk <= 0
            await Timer(1, units="ns")
            dut.clk <= 1
            await Timer(1, units="ns")

        dut._log.info("my_signal_1 is", dut.my_signal_1.value)
        assert dut.my_signal_2.value == 0, "my_signal_2 is not 0!"

        dut._log.info("Running test...done")

This will first drive 10 periods of a square wave clock onto the ``clk`` port of the toplevel.
After this, the clock stops,
the value of ``my_signal_1`` is printed,
and the value of ``my_signal_2`` is checked to be ``0``.

> Things to note are that we are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Things to note:
```

> * writing ``@cocotb.test()`` to mark this as a test to be run,
> * using ``<=`` to assign a value to a signal,
> * and use ``.value`` to read a value back.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use the ``@cocotb.test()`` decorator to mark the test function to be run
* Use ``<=`` to assign a value to a signal (alternatively, use ``.value =``)
* Use ``.value`` to get a signal's current value
```

The test shown is running sequentially, from start to end.
It's most likely that you will want to do things "at the same time" however

> (think multiple ``always`` blocks in Verilog or ``process``\ es in VHDL).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(think multiple ``always`` blocks in Verilog or ``process`` statements in VHDL).
```

    async def my_first_test(dut):
        """Try accessing the design."""

        dut._log.info("Running test...")
        for cycle in range(10):
            dut.clk <= 0
            await Timer(1, units="ns")
            dut.clk <= 1
            await Timer(1, units="ns")

        dut._log.info("my_signal_1 is", dut.my_signal_1.value)
        assert dut.my_signal_2.value[0] == 0, "my_signal_2[0] is not 0!"

        dut._log.info("Running test...done")

This will first drive 10 periods of a square wave clock onto the ``clk`` port of the toplevel.
After this, the clock stops,
the value of ``my_signal_1`` is printed,
and the value of index ``0`` of ``my_signal_2`` is checked to be ``0``.

Things to note:

* Use the ``@cocotb.test()`` decorator to mark the test function to be run
* Use ``<=`` to assign a value to a signal (alternatively, use ``.value =``)
* Use ``.value`` to get a signal's current value

The test shown is running sequentially, from start to end.

> Lines with :keyword:`await` wait there until the simulator is returning control back to cocotb.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each :keyword:`await` expression suspends execution of the test until whatever event the test is waiting for occurs and the simulator returns control back to cocotb (See :ref:`triggers`).
```
